faber est quisque fortunae suae-(Meaning)every man is architect of his own fortune
bis vivit qui bene vivit-(Meaning)S/he lives twice who lives well
dimidium facti qui coepit habet-(Meaning)He who has begun has the work half done (Horace)
bis vincit qui se vincit in victoria-(Meaning)He conquers twice who conquers himself in victory (Publius Syrus)
aut viam inveniam aut faciam-(Meaning)I'll either find a way or make one
aut vincere aut mori-(Meaning)Either to conquer or to die
ipsa scientia potestas est-(Meaning)Knowledge itself is power.
nil desperandum-(Meaning)Never despair
nemo me impune lacessit-(Meaning)No one provokes me with impunity. (motto of the kings of Scotland)
nulli secundus /nulli secunda-(Meaning)Second to none
perfer et obdura; dolor hic tibi proderit olim-(Meaning)Be patient and tough; some day this pain will be useful to you.
per aspera ad astra!-(Meaning)Through difficulties to the stars!
candor dat viribus alas-(Meaning)Sincerity gives wings to strength
possunt quia posse videntur-(Meaning)They can because they seem to be able to(they can do it because they think they can do it - the power of positive thinking)
qui audet adipiscitur-(Meaning)S/he who dares wins (or: s/he who wins dares)
sedit qui timuit ne non succederet.-(Meaning)He who feared he would not succeed sat still.
Vir sapit qui pauca loquitur -(Meaning)That man is wise who talks little.
tu ne cede malis sed contra audentior ito-(Meaning)Yield not to misfortunes, but advance all the more boldly against them
dum vita est spes est-(Meaning)While there's life, there's hope
una salus victis nullam sperare salutem-(Meaning)The one safety for the vanquished is to abandon hope of safety(knowing that there is no hope can give one the courage to fight and win).
veritas vos liberabit-(Meaning)The truth shall make you free
vincit qui se vincit-(Meaning)He conquers who conquers himself.
dum spiro, spero-(Meaning)While I breathe, I hope (a motto of South Carolina)
Amor aeternus-(Meaning)Love forever.
Fluctuat nec mergitur-(Meaning)It is tossed by the waves but it does not sink.
Amor animi arbitrio sumitur, non ponitur-(Meaning)We choose to love, we do not choose to cease loving.
Difficile est longum subito deponere amorem-(Meaning)It is difficult at once to relinquish a long-cherished love.
Amicitia semper prodest, amor et nocet-(Meaning)Friendship always benefits, love sometimes injures.
cras amet qui nunquam amavit; quique amavit, cras amet-(Meaning)May he love tomorrow who has never loved before; And may he who has loved, love tomorrow as well.
Carpe diem, quam minimum credula postero-(Meaning)Seize the day, put no trust in the morrow.
Amans iratus multa mentitur-(Meaning)An angry lover tells himself many lies.
Quos amor verus tenuit, tenebit-(Meaning)True love will hold on to those whom it has held.
Qui non vult fieri desidiosus, amet-(Meaning)Let the man who does not wish to be idle, fall in love.
Ad praesens ova cras pullis sunt meliora -(Meaning)Eggs today are better than chickens tomorrow.
Dum excusare credis, accusas - St. Jerome -(Meaning)When you believe you are excusing yourself, you are accusing yourself.
Etiam capillus unus habet umbram - Publilius Syrus-(Meaning)Even one hair has a shadow.
Timendi causa est nescire - Seneca -(Meaning)Ignorance is the cause of fear.
Transit umbra, lux permanet - Unknown -(Meaning)Shadow passes, light remains.
Ubi concordia, ibi victoria - Publius Syrus -(Meaning)Where there is unity, there is the victory.
Ut desint vires, tamen est laudanda voluntas - Ovid -(Meaning)Although the power is lacking, the will is commendable.
Materiam superabat opus - Ovid -(Meaning)The workmanship was better than the subject matter.
Malum consilium quod mutari non potest - Publilius Syrus -(Meaning)It’s a bad plan that can’t be changed.
Manus manum lavat -Petronius -(Meaning)One hand washes the other.